       Time Series Reversal in Trend-Following Strategies?,??
                               Jiadong Liua,∗, Fotis Papailiasb,c
                 a
                     Queen’s Management School, Queen’s University Belfast, UK
                        b
                          King’s Business School, King’s College London, UK
                                      c
                                        Knot Analytics Ltd, UK




Abstract
This paper empirically studies the reversal pattern following the formation of trend-
following signals in the time series context. This reversal pattern is statistically
significant and usually occurs between 12 and 24 months after the formation of trend-
following signals. Employing a universe of 55 liquid futures, we find that instruments
with sell signals in the trend-following portfolio (“losers”) contribute to this type of
reversal, even if their profits are not realised. The instruments with buy signals
in the trend-following portfolio (“winners”) contribute much less. A double-sorted
investment strategy based on both return continuation and reversal yields to portfolio
gains which are significantly higher than that of the corresponding trend-following
strategy.
Keywords: Reversal, Trend-following Strategies, Market Timing, Time Series
Momentum, Return Signal Momentum




   ?
     First Draft: May 22, 2017. This Version: December 9, 2021.
  ??
     We are grateful for comments which significantly improved the paper from the Editor, John A.
Doukas and two anonymous referees. We also thank Bumjean Sohn, and the seminar participants
at the APAD 2018 conference in Busan, South Korea, the Infiniti 2019 Conference in Tianjing,
China, and Queen’s University Belfast, UK.
   ∗
     Corresponding Author. Queen’s Management School, Queen’s University Belfast, Riddel Hall,
185 Stranmillis Road, BT9 5EE, UK. email: liu.jiadong@qub.ac.uk.


                                                1




                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
1. Introduction

    The time series continuation of financial asset returns1 has been widely studied in
the academic literature, through investigating serial correlation (Fama and French,
1988; Lo and MacKinlay, 1988; Lewellen, 2002; DeMiguel et al., 2014) and time series
momentum (TSM) (Moskowitz et al., 2012; Menkhoff et al., 2012; Georgopoulou
and Wang, 2016). One practical application of time series continuation is the trend
strategy which in recent years has become increasingly popular among hedge funds.
However, what has not yet been examined exhaustively is the reversal effect which
emerges after the continuation pattern.2
    This paper empirically investigates the reversal property of various financial as-
sets and analyses its relationship with continuation focusing exclusively on the time
series dimension. Return continuation and reversals are usually closely related and
discussed together in the literature. Historically, most studies have focused on cross-
sectional momentum and reversals which have been documented internationally and
in various financial assets.3 According to a number of well-known behavioural the-
ories by Barberis et al. (1998), Daniel et al. (1998), and Hong and Stein (1999)
among others, the rationale behind momentum and reversals is related to short-term
under-reaction and delayed over-reaction. In the time series context, Moskowitz et al.
(2012) also attribute the TSM effect to these behavioural features. Some recent stud-
ies attempt to explain the momentum and reversal effect using rational expectation
models, for example, information percolation (Andrei and Cujean, 2017), heteroge-
neous beliefs (Ottaviani and Sørensen, 2015) and time-varying factor loading (Kelly

   1
     Return continuation is seen in the finance literature as an analogue of momentum; see, among
others, Rouwenhorst (1998) and Fama (1998). Sometimes these two words are used interchangeably.
However, return continuation is applicable across a wider range of dynamics.
   2
     Though some studies in the literature mention it, for example, Moskowitz et al. (2012) uncovered
a long-term reversal beyond one year of TSM signals.
   3
     Cross-sectional momentum and reversals have been extensively studied in various financial
markets, see, e.g., the US stock market (De Bondt and Thaler, 1985; Lo and MacKinlay, 1990),
international stock markets (Fama and French, 1998; Rouwenhorst, 1998), country indices (Bhojraj
and Swaminathan, 2006), various asset classes (Asness et al., 2013), and commodities (Miffre and
Rallis, 2007; Gorton et al., 2013).



                                                 2




                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
et al., 2021). The above-mentioned literature suggests the existence of a certain
linkage between time series continuation and reversal.
    Recently, however, Conrad and Yavuz (2017) argue that cross-sectional momen-
tum and reversals are not pervasively linked to each other. This finding contradicts
the conventional view that, if momentum and reversals are linked, the securities
which exhibit momentum should also exhibit reversals soon afterwards. This in-
creases our interest in investigating time series continuation and time series reversal.
    In our empirical study, we decompose different trend-following strategies based
on a portfolio of 55 of the world’s most liquid commodity and financial futures.
We find that time series momentum and reversal do not occur in the same group of
assets. Those assets that show strong momentum profit do not experience significant
reversal. This means that we arrive at a conclusion similar to that of Conrad and
Yavuz (2017) regarding the cross-sectional analysis. Interestingly, we observe that
instruments with sell signals (past “losers”) contribute to this type of reversal. By
contrast, the instruments with buy signals (past “winners”) contribute much less.
    Our finding challenges the prominent behavioural theories in the areas of momen-
tum and reversal, especially the unified theory of Hong and Stein (1999). According
to the latter, momentum and reversal can be generated simultaneously by a model
based on a single risky asset. Therefore, Hong and Stein (1999) provide the be-
havioural explanation for momentum and reversal more in the time series context
rather than in the cross-sectional one. The empirical results in the present study,
suggest that time series momentum is not linked to time series reversal, implying
that the unified theory of Hong and Stein (1999) could be misleading.
    But, our results are consistent with several studies proposing that momentum and
reversal should be treated as separate effects. George and Hwang (2004, 2007) put
forward two separate theories to explain the two phenomena in which momentum is
caused by anchoring bias whereas reversal is linked to capital gain lock-in theory. Yao
(2012) suggest that the reversal effect could be driven by the January seasonality in
the stock market, whereas momentum is not. A number of empirical studies suggest
that reversal does not necessarily follow momentum in stock markets; see, e.g., Lee
and Swaminathan (2000), Cooper et al. (2004), and Conrad and Yavuz (2017). Li

                                             3




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
and Galvani (2018) also find a similar result in the corporate bond market.
    One effective way to examine time series reversal in financial assets is to employ
contrarian trend-following strategies. Trend-following trading signals depend on their
own past returns without a cross-sectional comparison. The simple moving average
is one of the most intuitive trend-following strategies based on technical analysis.
Recently, researchers have attributed the profitability of trend-following strategies
to time series continuation and introduced more advanced methods such as TSM,
see Moskowitz et al. (2012), and return signal momentum (RSM), see Papailias et al.
(2021). Therefore, we base our investigation on these two momentum approaches in
the time series domain.
    We first capture the timing of time series reversal and find that it occurs from 12
to 24 months after the portfolio formation. This finding differs from the traditional
cross-sectional reversals which usually last longer, between 2 and 5 years after the
portfolio formation date.4 Moskowitz et al. (2012) document a strong short-term
(1–12 month) TSM, but no statistically significant long-term (2–5 years) reversal.
    Like Conrad and Yavuz (2017), we classify instruments in trend-following strate-
gies into four groups: “realised winner”, “realised loser”, “contrarian winner”, and
“contrarian loser”. The realised winner sub-portfolio consists of instruments with
positive trend-following trading signals (winners) whose profits are realised in the
subsequent investment horizon (1–12 months). The realised loser sub-portfolio con-
sists of instruments with negative trading signals (losers) that later produce negative
returns, meaning that the losers portfolio realises its profit. By contrast, the con-
trarian winners and contrarian losers include instruments with positive and negative
signals that fail to gain profits. The construction of the above four sub-portfolios
allows us to see which part of the trend-following returns contributes most to time

   4
     Of course, we cannot rule out the possibility that this difference might occur due to various
factors such as the sample period and the specific market. For example, cross-sectional reversals
require a long-term ranking period of 2–5 years in stock markets (De Bondt and Thaler, 1985), but
reduce to 1.5–3 years in commodity markets, as suggested by Bianchi et al. (2015). Bhojraj and
Swaminathan (2006) find that the reversals of country indices occur from 2 to 3 years after the
1-year momentum effect.



                                                4




                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
series reversal.
    Next, to properly investigate the relationship between time series continuation
and reversal, we perform both sign analysis and performance evaluation to determine
the future returns of the above-mentioned portfolio segmentations. In the sign anal-
ysis, we find that the loser sub-portfolios, no matter whether their profits are realised
or not, i.e. both realised losers and contrarian losers, experience strong subsequent
reversal. By contrast, the results from the winner subgroups lead to mixed answers:
the realised winners exhibit strong reversal, while the contrarian winners do not.
    The results of performance evaluation again suggest that the loser subgroups,
especially the contrarian losers, contribute the most to the time series reversal. This
conclusion is consistent with the results about cross-sectional reversal noted by Con-
rad and Yavuz (2017); they do not observe statistically significant returns for realised
portfolios (realised winners minus realised losers) but do observe significant returns
for contrarian portfolios (contrarian winners minus contrarian losers). We take a step
further by showing that the positive returns generated by the realised winner and
the realised loser offset each other when considered together. However, the reversal
of a contrarian loser is much stronger than that of a contrarian winner, which leads
to more statistically significant results for contrarian portfolios.
    A double-sorted trading strategy is then constructed, holding the four previ-
ously mentioned decompositions of trend-following strategies. We call this a “trend-
following reversal strategy”, since it combines time series continuation and reversal.
It differs from the widely documented cross-sectional reversal as it does not require
any relative return comparisons. For each single asset, we first sort on the 12-month
returns skipping the most recent 12 months (ranking period 1) and second sort on
the recent 12-month returns (ranking period 2), and then invest in the following
month. For instance, a realised winner strategy contains assets with positive returns
in both ranking periods, 1 and 2. Figure 1 illustrates how these four double-sorted
strategies are constructed. Our results suggest that holding the realised winner and
the contrarian loser subgroups can yield annualised returns as high as 22% and 24%,
respectively. These strategies are liquid and well diversified in the context of real
market trading.

                                             5




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
    To understand the risk exposure of these strategies, we run factor regressions on
the trend-following reversal returns against a series of standard financial market risk
factors. The regression output reveals that the trend-following reversal returns are
closely related to the market as well as the momentum factors. However, certain
strategies, especially the contrarian loser, produce significant alphas which are not
explained by the popular risk factors. Moreover, the contrarian loser represents an
effective strategy for investors to avoid momentum risks, owing to its low correlation
with trend-following factors.
    In short, the contribution of this paper to the literature is threefold. First, we find
that time series reversal usually occurs between 12 and 24 months after the formation
of trend-following strategies, which is much shorter than the findings documented
in the cross-sectional reversal literature. Second, we determine which of the trend-
following components contributes most to the reversal profits; this finding contradicts
the prominent behavioural theory of Hong and Stein (1999). Third, we document a
trend-following reversal strategy earning significant abnormal returns based on both
time series continuation and reversal.
    The rest of the paper is organised as follows. In Section 2 we describe our
data collection and transformation methods, and explain the intuitions of differ-
ent trend-following trading signals. Section 3 presents the performance results of
multiple trend-following strategies and uncovers the timing of time series reversal.
In Section 4, we perform two analyses—sign analysis and sub-portfolio performance
evaluation—to investigate the reversal property of each subgroup via a decomposi-
tion of trend-following strategies. Section 5 introduces the trend-following reversal
strategy and explores its factor loadings. Finally, Section 6 summarises the conclu-
sions.

2. Data and Trading Signals

2.1. Future Contracts and Other Data
   We collected data for 55 of the world’s most liquid exchange traded futures from
January 1985 to March 2015. Such a dataset is similar to that used in TSM studies


                                             6




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
by Moskowitz et al. (2012), and also in other trend-following studies, e.g., Hutchin-
son and O’Brien (2015), Kim et al. (2016), and Baltas and Kosowski (2013). The
pool consists of 24 commodity futures, nine foreign exchange futures, nine equity
indexes of developed countries, and 13 government bonds of various maturities for
six developed countries. The data were sourced from Bloomberg and DataStream;
see Section A in the Online Appendix for more details.
    The futures prices of the nearest contracts are concatenated to form long time
series for reasons of tractability. For robustness, we also splice the futures prices
based on the trading volume. To mimic a real-life trading situation, once the trading
volume of the second nearest contract exceeds that of the nearest one, we do not
allow the nearest contract to be chosen again even if its trading volume subsequently
rise higher. The results show that the descriptive statistics for our spliced data do
not vary greatly from those obtained using the nearest contract data.
    As in Moskowitz et al. (2012) and Papailias et al. (2021), we compute the daily
excess returns for each instrument and calculate its cumulative returns. This allows
us to proxy for prices and compute our periodic returns. In this paper, we focus on
monthly returns, which are calculated from the previously mentioned daily excess
cumulative return series. This allows us to directly compare our results with the
literature.
    In Table 1, we summarise the descriptive statistics of the original series. The table
presents the date of the first available data point for each series, and the annualised
arithmetic mean, standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis of the monthly excess
returns of each individual instrument. The last available month for all series is
March 2015. Most futures have positive long-term annualised means, while some of
the currency futures show slightly negative values. We found that volatility varies
across different asset classes. The volatilities of commodities and equities are much
higher than those of currencies and bonds. To illustrate, Natural Gas futures have
a volatility of 54.39%, whereas the 2-year maturity US bond (US2) offers the lowest
volatility at 2.84%.
    For the factor regression analysis which follows, we used Bloomberg to collect the
monthly returns of four major financial asset class indices: the MSCI World Index

                                             7




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
(MSCI), S&P GSCI, Barclays Aggregate Bond Index (BOND), and US Dollar Index
(USDI). The percentage changes of Fama and French (1993) three factors (SMB,
HML), Fama and French (2015) five factors (RMW, CMA) as well as the risk free
rate were downloaded from Kenneth French’s website.5 Finally, the Value (VAL)
and Momentum (MOM) Everywhere factors of Asness et al. (2013) are available
from the AQR website.6 Data for all the above are available from January 1985 to
March 2015.

2.2. Trading Signals of Trend-Following Strategies
    Two types of trend-following strategies are employed in this study, TSM and
RSM.7 Previous studies suggest that 12 months is the optimal look-back period (j) for
trend-following strategies, and holding period (h) usually ranges from 1-12 months,
see, among others, Moskowitz et al. (2012), Zhou and Zhu (2013) and Papailias et al.
(2021). Hence, in this study we adopt a 12-month value of j for all the benchmark
strategies.8
    The TSM signals are generated in the same way as in Moskowitz et al. (2012),
where a long position is indicated if the period return is positive, i.e., the annual
return using j = 12; otherwise, the investor opens a short position on security s.
The TSM returns are given as follows:
                                           (
                                                           s
                                               +rts ,   P Rt−12,t−1 >0
                      Rts |P Rt−12,t−1
                              s
                                       =                   s
                                                                        ,                     (1)
                                               −rts ,   P Rt−12,t−1 < 0

          s
where P Rt−12,t−1 is the period return of instrument s during time t − 12 to t − 1, as
suggested by our look-back period j = 12.
   The RSM signals are generated when the empirical probability of the positive

   5
     http://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html
   6
     https://www.aqr.com/
   7
     We also examine the properties of time series reversal based on a simple moving average (SMA)
trading rule, which is one of the most fundamental trend-following strategies. The results of SMA
are very similar to those of TSM and RSM, and are discussed in Section B of the Online Appendix.
   8
     We also have additional results based on look-back periods other than 12 months which are
available upon request.


                                                  8




                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
returns in the past 12 months exceeds a certain threshold value. Following Papailias
et al. (2021), we calculate the RSM returns using the following equation:
                                            (
                                                +rts ,     s
                                                         Pt−12,t−1 >q
                     Rts |Pt−12,t−1
                            s
                                    ,q =                   s
                                                                       ,             (2)
                                                −rts ,   Pt−12,t−1 < q

          s
where Pt−12,t−1   denotes the probability of positive returns of the past 12-month pe-
riod, and q is the threshold value. For simplicity, we select the most intuitive thresh-
old value, q = 0.5, indicating that a long position is established when the empirical
                s
probability Pt−12,t−1  is greater than 0.5, whereas a short position is established when
this probability is smaller than 0.5.
    In line with Moskowitz et al. (2012), when investigating the profitability of the
trend-following reversal strategies, we implement a volatility scaling approach to
weight the portfolio. This approach calculates the portfolio weights, or the position
sizes for individual instruments, in a time-varying way. Specifically, we control the
position size of each instrument to be inversely proportional to its ex-ante realised
volatility σt , which is calculated as follows:
                                      ∞
                                      X
                          σt2 = 261     (1 − δ)δ i (rt−1−i − r̄t )2 ,                (3)
                                      i=0

where the parameter δ is defined when the centre of mass is equal to 60 days. The
benefit of controlling for volatility is that it can lead to more profitable investment
strategies, because it takes a crucial role in adjusting the position size of momentum
strategies (Barroso and Santa-Clara, 2015; Kim et al., 2016; Papailias et al., 2021).
    To form a portfolio of various instruments, we calculate the trend-following posi-
tion signals in the same way as in Equations 1 and 2, and allow the portfolio weight
for each instrument to be given as a function of its ex-ante realised volatility σt2 . We
use a target value for the annual volatility of 40% as in Moskowitz et al. (2012). This
aligns our results with the current literature and also mimics a real-world trading
scenario with a capital margin of about 5–20%. Then, the TSM and RSM position
returns for an asset s are given by:


                                                  9




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
                                           
                                            +rs 40%
                                                  s  ,              s
                                                                 P Rt−12,t−1 ⩾0
                              s                   t σt−1
                      Rts |P Rt−12,t−1 =                                              ,   (4)
                                            −rts σ40%
                                                    s  ,            s
                                                                 P Rt−12,t−1 <0
                                                      t−1
                                             
                                              +rs 40%
                                                    s  ,            s
                                                                  Pt−12,t−1 >q
                                                     t σt−1
                       Rts |Pt−12,t−1
                              s
                                      ,q =                                        .       (5)
                                              −rts σ40%
                                                      s  ,           s
                                                                   Pt−12,t−1 <q
                                                       t−1


      Finally, for a universe of S assets, the portfolio return is calculated as:

                                                 S
                                             1   X
                                       Rtp =                s
                                                     Rts |Pt−12,t−1 , q,                  (6)
                                             S s=1

where Rts is the risk-adjusted return of each trend-following strategy for each indi-
vidual instrument, using the above volatility scaling method, and Rtp is the mean of
all the Rts .

3. Time Series Reversal

    According to the results of the OLS pooled regressions in Moskowitz et al. (2012)9 ,
time series reversal pattern is statistically insignificant. However, they have only
used single month return and return sign as the explanatory variables, which are
not exactly equivalent to the blocks that form time series momentum signals. Time
series momentum considers the past month returns as a whole, for instance, period
return over the past 12 months. By contrast, Papailias et al. (2021) examined the
predictive power of RSM strategies by using a lagged average of return signs P . P
covers all the return signs in the look-back period and can directly form the RSM
signal. Their results suggest that a significant reversal pattern exists following the
short-term momentum effect.
    In this section, we extend the above studies by adding more explanatory variables
to investigate the predictive power of TSM and RSM signals. First, as in Moskowitz
et al. (2012), we regress the volatility-scaled return rts /σt−1
                                                             s
                                                                 on the lagged signal

  9
      See Figure (1) in their paper.


                                                     10




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
                 s    s                                     s
month return rt−h  /σt−h−1 and lagged sign of return, sign(rt−h ). The equations are
specified as follows:

                                   s
                             rts /σt−1           s
                                       = α + βh rt−h   s
                                                     /σt−h−1 + st ,                            (7)


                                    s
                              rts /σt−1                s
                                        = α + βh sign(rt−h ) + st ,                            (8)

where rts is the excess return of asset s in month t adjusted by its available ex ante
             s          s                            s                 s
volatility σt−1 . sign(rt−h ) takes the value +1 if rt−h ⩾ 0 or −1 if rt−h < 0. h is the
number of lags used in the regressions which ranges from 1 to 60. Finally, st denotes
the error term, which has zero mean and finite variance.
    Second, we repeat the above regressions by employing two alternative regressors:
(i) the 12-month period return P Rt−h−11,t−h , and (ii) the 12-month mean return sign
Pt−h−11,t−h . These two variables are directly related to the formation of TSM and
                                                              T SM            RSM
RSM signals. Finally, the TSM and RSM signals, namely St−h−11,t−h        and St−h−11,t−h ,
are used as the third set of regressors. TSM and RSM signals take the value of +1
when P Rt−h−11,t−h and Pt−h−11,t−h indicates a buy signal, and the value of −1 for a
sell signal.
    In order to avoid the return co-movement across different futures contracts and
keep the regression results adjusted for time series dependence, we calculate the t-
statistics based on the robust standard error method proposed by Thompson (2011).
This approach addresses the problem that the residuals are correlated across both
firms (in our case, different futures contracts) and time.10 Therefore, it generates
consistent asymptotic efficiency standard errors and perform relatively well in small
sample situations.
    Figure 2 shows the time series predictability of the previously mentioned three
sets of explanatory variables on future returns. In Panel A, we can see that it is not

  10
     Moskowitz et al. (2012) claimed that their OLS pooled regression using volatility scaled return
is equivalent to a GLS approach. This means that they did use standard errors that cluster by both
futures contract and time effect. However, they did not adjust for simultaneous correlation across
both futures contract and time.


                                                11




                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
easy to capture a persistent reversal pattern following the first 12 months of return
continuation. The results are consistent with Moskowitz et al. (2012). However, if
we use an alternative set of regressors which covers all the information over the look-
back period, the time series reversal is more observable. As shown in Panel B, the 12
months period return and mean return sign lead to a strong reversal after the short-
term momentum effect. Between month 12 and 24, the t-statistics of beta coefficients
are lower than -3 for most months, indicating statistical significance at the 1% level.
Interestingly, time series reversal is “double-humped”, with t-statistics also being
significant during months 36–60. Although the average t-statistics for months 36–60
are only slightly lower than those during months 12–24, they do not produce an
obvious contrarian profit.11 Therefore, we conclude that this 36–60 month reversal
is weak and decide not to cover it in the paper.
    The results shown in Panel C of Figure 2 further validate the existence of time
series reversal. Both TSM and RSM signals are positively correlated with the future
returns in the short-run. In the medium-run, they experience a statistically signifi-
cant reversal. The next two subsections inspect the timing and profitability of time
series reversal.

3.1. Return Decays of Multiple Holding Periods Strategies
    In an attempt to evaluate trend-following strategies with multiple holding peri-
ods (i.e., holding the underlying assets for more than 1 month), we find that these
strategies never outperform the same strategy using a 1-month holding period. A
similar result was also found in Moskowitz et al. (2012). The authors tested the
alphas of different TSM strategies with various holding periods demonstrating that
the 1-month holding period strategy specification outperforms all other specifica-
tions with holding periods of more than 1 month. The longer the holding period, the
lower the alpha, indicating that trend-following profits are gradually offset by the
subsequent reversals.12

 11
      This is discussed in the next subsection and reflected in return decays shown in Figure 3.
 12
      See Table 2 in Moskowitz et al. (2012).



                                                 12




                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
    To thoroughly investigate the phenomenon of return decays, we examine two
trend-following trading strategies—TSM and RSM—based on a look-back period of
j = 12. Figure 3 illustrates the decay in trend-following strategies as the holding
period h increases. We report the annualised returns of the above strategies under
different holding periods, for h = {1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 48, 60} months. From
the figure, we can see that returns gradually decrease when moving from h = 1 to
h = 24, indicating that the benefit of return continuation is largely offset by the
subsequent time series reversal. The average returns remain stable after a holding
period of more than 24 months, meaning that the reversal pattern stops after the
end of the second year. The effect of the long-term reversal (36–60 month) uncovered
in the previous section is weak, since it does not further reduce the mean returns.
These results are consistent across the two strategies.

3.2. Timing of Time Series Reversal
    If time series reversal ensues after the formation of trend-following signals, when
does it begin and end? To answer this question, we implement TSM and RSM
contrarian trend-following strategies using different time lags. This means that we
take the opposite positions to those suggested by the trend-following strategy signals
but using different lags from 2 to 36 months. Therefore, a total of 70 (35 × 2) lagged
contrarian strategies are implemented using the trading signals with a holding period
of h = 1.
    Figure 4 shows a plot of the annualised mean returns of the aforementioned
contrarian strategies, revealing the timing of the time series reversal. In the short
term, contrarian strategies produce negative returns (2–10 months for TSM and
2–12 months for RSM). The negative short-term returns are followed by an inter-
mediate reversal, which usually lasts for more than a year (12–26 months for TSM
and 13–25 months for RSM). The portfolio returns become negative again after the
intermediate-term reversal. None of these contrarian strategies produce statistically
significant returns that outperform a naı̈ve 1/N buy-and-hold strategy. Hence, simple
contrarian trend-following strategies do not outperform the market.
    Yao (2012) argues that January seasonality is one of the main reasons for contrar-


                                             13




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
ian returns. According to her study, the classic cross-sectional contrarian strategy
results could be overturned in the US stock market when controlling for January
seasonality. In that sense, we also examine the impact of January seasonality on
time series reversal (TSM and RSM) reporting in Section C of the Online Appendix.
We find that the profitability of time series reversal is not centralised in January,
but is shown in the other 11 months as well. This can be explained by the fact that
our universe includes different types of futures contracts whereas the January effect
is more commonly found in equity markets.
    Since these contrarian strategies are performed using the volatility scaling method,
low volatile instruments, e.g., bond futures, may dominate the portfolio. As shown in
Table 1, the volatilities of bond futures are mostly below 10%, which are much lower
than the volatilities of the three remaining asset classes. Therefore, we also apply
contrarian strategies the same as in Figure 4 using the sample portfolio but excluding
all bond futures. We note that time series reversal still holds after controlling for
bond futures. These results are presented in Section D of the Online Appendix.
    In summary, time series reversal is a pervasive but not economically significant
phenomenon across the two strategies and time horizons. Normally, it occurs between
the end of the first year and the end of the second year, after the trend-following
signal is generated. The results differ from those in the existing literature, where
the long-term reversals, cross-sectional or time series, usually last for much longer.13
Time series reversal vanishes after the end of the second year.

4. Linkage Between Time Series Momentum and Reversal

   In this section, two approaches are adopted to investigate the linkage between
time series momentum and reversal: the sub-portfolio sign analysis and the perfor-
mance evaluation. These two analyses further track the decomposed trend-following

  13
    For example, cross-sectional reversals require a long-term ranking period of 2–5 years in stock
markets (De Bondt and Thaler, 1985) and 1.5–3 years in commodity markets (Bianchi et al., 2015).
Bhojraj and Swaminathan (2006) find that the reversals of country indices occur from 2 to 3 years
after the 1-year momentum effect. Moskowitz et al. (2012) document a statistically insignificant
long-term (2–5 years) TSM reversal.


                                                14




                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
portfolio beyond the conventional holding period of 1–12 months. This helps us
to understand the behaviour of the four sub-portfolios and illustrates which one
contributes most to the time series reversal. The performance evaluation period is
extended to a post-holding period of 13–60 months after the signal.14
    The time horizon is divided into three parts: (i) the 12-month look-back period j
prior to month 1 (see ranking period 1 in Figure 1); (ii) the holding period h ranging
from month 1–12 (see ranking period 2 in Figure 1);15 , and (iii) the 13–60 month
post holding period. As before, the same two trend-following strategies—TSM and
RSM—are performed. A rolling method is employed to generate and renew the
trading signals every month.
    Analogous to Conrad and Yavuz (2017), we decompose the trend-following port-
folio into four subgroups: realised winner, realised loser, contrarian winner, and
contrarian loser. First, based on each instrument’s signals formed in ranking pe-
riod 1 (j = 12), we divide the entire portfolio into winners and losers. We then
classify the winner and loser portfolios into the above-mentioned four subgroups
by evaluating whether or not their profits are realised during ranking period 2
(h = {1, 2, 3, 6, 12}).16
    More specifically, the realised winner represents a sub-portfolio with instruments
that were past winners during period j and continue to generate positive returns
during period h. The realised loser represents a sub-portfolio that consists of past
losers during period j that continue to generate negative returns during period h. By
contrast, the contrarian winner represents a sub-portfolio comprising past winners
during period j, which then fail to generate positive returns during period h. The
contrarian loser represents a sub-portfolio with past losers that go on to generate
positive returns during period h. These four subgroups cover all the assets in the

  14
     Post-holding period study of momentum strategies was also seen in Jegadeesh and Titman
(2001), who tracked cross-sectional momentum performance up to 60 months after the formation
of momentum signals.
  15
     We leave h = {1, 2, 3, 6, 12} as this is usual in calculating momentum profits, see, e.g., Moskowitz
et al. (2012).
  16
     Figure 1 illustrates how these four sub-portfolios are constructed.



                                                   15




                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
trend-following portfolio, as either a positive (winner) or a negative (loser) signal is
assigned to each instrument at each point in time.

4.1. Sub-portfolio Sign Analysis
    Sign analysis allows us to see which sub-portfolios exhibit strong time series rever-
sal. Here, we calculate the frequency of positive signs for sub-portfolio components
during the post trend-following holding period (13–60 months). We divide the post
holding period into four separate periods, each lasting for one year. These are 13–24
months, 25–36 months, 37–48 months, and 49–60 months after portfolio formation.
    Based on the above-mentioned settings, (j, h) sub-portfolios are established for
analysis. For instance, in a (12, 12) scheme, the trend-following signal (winner/loser)
at time t is based on the returns during months t − 11 to t for each individual
instrument. Then, we determine whether the profits of these winners and losers
are realised or not during the next h = 12 periods, i.e., t + 1 to t + 12. Finally,
we calculate how many instruments in each subgroup generate positive returns over
months t + 13 to t + 60 and report the rate of positive returns. The same process is
followed for each month from January 1985 to March 2015.
    Our primary focus is on the results during months 13–24 of the post holding
period, when time series reversal occurs. Figure 5 shows these results as a plot of the
aggregated probability of positive signs for all the instruments classified as one of the
four sub-portfolios.17 The loser subgroups, i.e., the realised losers and the contrarian
losers, exhibit positive rates of around 65–66% and 63%, respectively, during this
period. These success rates are much higher than the unconditional positive rate of
58.7%, which was calculated using all the 55 individual instruments from January
1985 to March 2015. We also employ a proportion test developed by Newcombe
(1998a,b) to examine whether the success rates of these subgroups are statistically
different from those for the unconditional rate. The results suggest that the rates of
both the realised loser and contrarian loser sub-portfolios are significantly different

  17
    We also show results of sign analysis for the rest of the post holding period (25–60 months)
using different (j, h) settings. These results are reported in Section E of the Online Appendix.



                                              16




                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
at the 1% level. Moreover, the differences persist across different (j, h) schemes and
strategies.
    By contrast, the winners, i.e. the realised winners and the contrarian winners,
show positive rates lower than the unconditional rate, at about 55–56% and 57%,
respectively. The positive rates of the realised winner subgroups are significantly
lower than the average at the 1% level, while those of the contrarian winner are not.
To summarise, both of the loser sub-portfolios exhibit strong time series reversal. In
the winner group, only the realised winners show statistically significant reversal.
    Our findings indicate that the instruments which contribute to trend-following
profits, or the instruments that fall into the realised winner and realised loser sub-
groups, do experience a strong reversal during the time series reversal period (13–24
months). The two remaining portfolios, i.e., the contrarian winners and contrar-
ian losers, which do not generate trend-following profits, behave differently to each
other. The contrarian losers still produce significant reversals, whereas the contrarian
winners do not.
    After the 13–24-month period, time series reversal ceases to occur. The superior
positive rates of the realised loser and contrarian loser subgroups are discontinued
during the subsequent holding periods of 25–36 months and 37–48 months. Finally,
during the 49–60-month period, the rates increase slightly again, to around 62% and
61%, respectively. Similarly, the rates for the realised winners rebound to the un-
conditional rate during the 25–36-month and 37–48-month periods, after which they
fall back to approximately 57–58% in the 49–60-month period. Finally, the positive
rates of the contrarian winner are not statistically significant over the majority of
the sample. Details of the above results are available in Section E of the Online
Appendix.

4.2. Sub-Portfolio Performance
   To further investigate how each sub-portfolio evolves during the 4-year post-
holding period (13–60 months), we evaluate the strategy performance with the un-
derlying instruments of the four subgroups for 12 months. Four sets of strategies,
with holding periods of 13–24 months, 25–36 months, 37–48 months, and 49–60


                                             17




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
months after the formation of TSM and RSM signals, are run to match the previous
analysis. The realised winner, realised loser, contrarian winner, and contrarian loser
groups are determined using the previously described (j, h) schemes.
    Table 2 summarises the performance of TSM and RSM strategies in subgroups
categorised using the (12, 12) scheme from January 1985 to March 2015.18 Trading
signals for four different 12-month holding periods are generated, covering the 13–60
months after the formation of the original TSM and RSM signals. Following the
methodology in Jegadeesh and Titman (1993), we compute the 12-month holding
period returns by averaging the returns of overlapping portfolios. We use equally
weighted method to construct each sub-portfolio. For each strategy, the annualised
mean return, annualised volatility, Sharpe ratio, and maximum drawdown are re-
ported.19 Throughout the strategy evaluation part of this paper, we compute the
t-statistics to check whether the returns are significant or not, using the Newey–West
standard error of lag(4)(Newey and West, 1986).
    As shown in Table 2, the contrarian loser portfolio generates the highest returns
and Sharpe ratio across the four subgroups during the first year of the post trend-
following holding period (13–24 months).20 The Newey–West t-statistics suggest
that all the trend-following contrarian loser sub-portfolios produce positive returns
at a 1% level of significance. The realised losers also display strong reversals during
both the 13–24-month and the 25–36-month periods. However, the reversal pattern
is much stronger during the 25–36-month period, when all the returns of the three
strategies are significant at the 1% level. Both of the loser groups, which one would
expect to perform poorly (short signals) during the trend-following holding period,
exhibit strong reversal during the 13–24- and 13–36-month periods. These results
are consistent with the previous sign analysis.

  18
     Similar tables using the (12, 1), (12, 3), and (12, 6) schemes are available in Section F of the
Online Appendix. The results are robust across different trend-following holding periods h.
  19
     Details of the strategy evaluation criteria are listed in Section G of the Online Appendix.
  20
     For robustness check, in Section H of the Online Appendix, we perform the same analysis by
assigning the same weight (25%) for each asset class and find the consistent results. The contrarian
loser show the strongest reversal effect which is statistically significant at the 1% level.



                                                 18




                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
    Next, we move on to the winner subgroups. The realised winner generally does
not exhibit strong returns except in the TSM case, where it barely produces an
annualised return of 4.4% (significant at the 10% level). The contrarian winner sub-
portfolio, which does not produce any significant returns during the 13–24-month
period, produces strong positive returns during the 25–36-month period. After the
first and second year of the post trend-following holding period, neither time series
continuation nor reversal exists.
    Conrad and Yavuz (2017) conclude that the realised portfolio, namely realised
winners minus realised losers, which contributes to the momentum profits, does not
contribute to the 13–24-month reversal. According to our results, this is because
the difference between realised winner and realised loser during this period is very
small (0.002 for TSM and 0.001 for RSM). Therefore, their returns are offset when
one is subtracted one from the other. Conrad and Yavuz (2017) also claim that the
contrarian portfolio, namely contrarian winners minus contrarian losers in our case,
generates significant returns. Our empirical finding suggests that in our sample this
is solely because of the contrarian losers.
    If we consider the realised portfolio (realised winner minus realised loser)and the
contrarian portfolio (contrarian winner minus contrarian loser), we find that our
results are consistent with those of Conrad and Yavuz (2017). The assets that show
momentum effect do not display strong long-term reversal, whereas the assets that
exhibit reversal do not experience short-term momentum. Therefore, we conclude
that time series momentum and reversal are not linked. Our conclusion challenges the
unified theory of Hong and Stein (1999) which used a single asset model to illustrate
both momentum and reversal. It may indicate that momentum and reversal are two
separate phenomena.
    To sum up, during the first year of the post trend-following holding period (13–
24 months), time series reversal is statistically significant when sub-portfolios are
considered. These patterns cease to hold beyond the end of Month 24. The realised
winners and the contrarian winners, which are supposed to produce high returns, i.e.,
with buy signals, no longer earn significant profits after the trend-following holding
period. On the other hand, the realised losers and the contrarian losers generate

                                             19




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
high returns, indicating strong reversal. Among the four subgroups, the contrarian
loser subgroup shows the strongest reversal during the 13–24-month period.

5. Trend-Following Reversal Strategies

    In this section, we introduce a new type of strategy that combines time series
continuation and reversal, called the trend-following reversal strategy. Then, the
risk exposure of trend-following reversal strategy is studied by employing multi-factor
models.

5.1. A Decomposition of Trend-Following Strategies
    To construct such a strategy, we use the same decomposition as in Section 4,
namely realised winner, realised loser, contrarian winner, and contrarian loser sub-
groups, using a (j, h) scheme, where j = 12 and h = {1, 3, 6, 12}. The investment
decision is made in the following month to avoid look-ahead bias. Trading signals
are generated every month, so that the position sizes are rebalanced every month.
To mimic a real world situation, we use a time-varying volatility scaling method to
adjust the portfolio weights, following the work of Moskowitz et al. (2012). In this
method, the weight for each individual instrument is inversely proportional to its
realised ex-ante volatility.
    The trend-following reversal strategy is a type of double-sorted strategy in which
the trend-following ranking (j) is the first sort and the realised/unrealised profit (h)
is the second sort.21 The trend-following reversal strategy maintains its tractability
and requires no external information other than the price returns. It also makes
more sense, as the first ranking period is the conventional trend-following look-back
period, and the second ranking period is the trend-following holding period.

  21
    There are numerous studies which employ and evaluate double-sorted momentum strategies.
Lee and Swaminathan (2000), Sagi and Seasholes (2007), Fuertes et al. (2010), and Conrad and
Yavuz (2017) combine momentum signals with other external variables such as term structure, firm-
specific attributes, trading volume, and value/book-to-market ratios as the second criterion, while
Bianchi et al. (2015) combine a long-term momentum ranking with a medium-term momentum
ranking and find superior abnormal returns.



                                                20




                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
    Table 3 summarises the performance of the 12 decomposed sub-portfolios un-
der three trend-following categories using (j, h) = {(12, 1), (12, 3), (12, 6), (12, 12)}
double-sorting periods. As suggested by the Newey–West t-statistics, the realised
winner and the contrarian loser sub-portfolios produce statistically significant re-
turns at a 1% level in all cases, regardless of the trend-following strategies and the
ranking scheme chosen. The annualised mean returns of the realised winners range
from 14.4% to 26.6%, and the returns of the contrarian losers range from 9.8% to
24.4%. The contrarian winner subgroup shows significant profits only when the
(12, 1) and (12, 6) schemes are used. Finally the contrarian winner group produces
hardly any statistically significant returns. The profitability of the realised winner
declines as h increases. Conversely, the contrarian loser performance improves as the
value of h increases.
    If investors go long in realised winners and contrarian winners and go short in
realised losers and contrarian losers, their positions are equivalent to a trend-following
strategy (TSM or RSM) holding for 13–24 months. However, trend-following reversal
strategies suggest that investors only take a long position in the realised winner and
contrarian loser sub-portfolios. This means that the past trend-following winners
(j = 12), which continue to generate profits (h = 1 − 12), will maintain the upward
trend, while the past losers, which earn positive returns later, will also increase in
the future.
    In an optimum case, we can combine two specific sub-portfolios, realised winner
(12, 1) and contrarian loser (12, 12), into a larger portfolio. This yields an annu-
alised portfolio return between 21.4% and 24.4%, while the volatility is reduced as
more instruments are included in the portfolio. In this study, we align the (j, h)
sub-portfolios for reasons of comparability. However, practitioners can choose any
combinations of different (j, h) settings to achieve portfolio diversification or profit
maximisation.
    Figure 6 plots the cumulative returns of the realised winner and the contrarian
loser under the TSM and RSM (12, 12) frameworks. These two sub-portfolios perform




                                             21




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
better than the original TSM and RSM strategies as benchmarks.22 A $1 investment
in TSM, TSM realised winner, and TSM contrarian loser strategies would be worth
$16.63, $143.82, and $209.07, respectively at the end of the sample period.23 When
the RSM frameworks is used, the realised winners and the contrarian losers also show
substantially higher performance than the original RSM strategy.
    We contend that our trend-following reversal strategies can be applied by prac-
titioners. Based on our dataset, which consists of 55 instruments, each subgroup
has sufficient assets allocated to it across time. Therefore, trend-following reversal
strategies are liquid and tradable, as each sub-portfolio has at least five instruments
in most cases. Figure 7 illustrates the proportions of individual instruments falling
into the four sub-portfolios under a TSM trading strategy using a (12, 12) scheme.24
Generally, the four subgroups are allocated evenly across different instruments, ex-
cept that the realised winner subgroup accounts for a slightly larger proportion and
the realised losers account for a smaller proportion. This reflects the asset diversifi-
cation of trend-following reversal strategies.

5.2. Risk Exposure Analysis
   To understand the dynamics of the trend-following reversal strategies, we regress
the returns of these sub-portfolios for each of the TSM and RSM strategies (12, 12)
on four classes of market risk factors. First, Table 4 shows the results of the Fama–
French three-factor and five-factor models as in Fama and French (1993) and Fama
and French (2015), respectively. Second, in Table 5 Panel A, we detail the global
asset class factors consisting of the MSCI World Index, S&P GSCI, Barclays US

  22
      The outperformance of the realised winner and the contrarian loser holds when we use a similar
sample by excluding all the bond futures. These results are available in Section D of the Online
Appendix.
   23
      The transaction costs are not considered here as we use the nearest futures contracts which
are required to roll each month. Therefore, the transaction costs will be indifferent across all the
strategies including the buy-and-hold strategy. For example, if the average rolling cost for the
portfolio is 10 basis points each month, then approximately 1.2% transaction cost is subtracted
from the annual return of each strategy.
   24
      Similar results, obtained under the RSM trading strategies and using different (12, k) schemes,
are also available on request.


                                                 22




                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
Aggregate Bond Index, and US-Dollar Index. In Panel B, The Value and Momen-
tum Everywhere (Asness et al., 2013) factor regressions are run to examine the risk
exposure of the four decomposed strategies.
     In general, we observe approximately 30–40% changes in most of these trend-
following reversal strategies, owing to changes in the stock market as proxied by
MSCI. One special case is that the contrarian loser strategies reduce this change to
approximately 20% or even less. In both Fama–French three-factor and five-factor
models, the remaining factors (SMB, HML RMW and CMA) explain very little
of the changes in these sub-portfolio returns. Overall, the realised winners and the
contrarian losers still generate statistically significant alphas which are not explained
by the model.
     Next, as shown in Table 5 Panel A, the global asset class factor models allow us to
examine the sensitivity of these sub-portfolios to changes in the international major
asset class indices. It is clear that the model explains the realised winner returns
better than the others, with R2 values being above 30%. With the exception of USDI,
most coefficients of the factors are statistically significant at the 5% and 1% levels.
It can be argued that this is due to the fact that bond futures play a prominent
role in the time series reversal portfolios and, therefore, are over-explained by the
bond index. The addition of more market factors results in a better goodness-of-fit
but a lower alpha for the realised winner. This is because the realised portfolios are
somewhat explained by the market factors whereas the contrarian portfolios -which
go against the momentum- are not. Despite of its lower alpha, the contrarian loser
still displays statistically significant alpha for TSM (t=1.73), but this is not the case
for RSM.
     Finally, in Table 5 Panel B, we regress the four sub-portfolio returns on the
Value and Momentum Everywhere factors. Unsurprisingly, these sub-strategies are
closely correlated to the movement of the market factor, and both the VAL and MOM
factors. The realised winner and the contrarian loser show stronger abnormal returns
compared to the other two subgroups, with alphas being statistically significant at
the 1% level across all the three strategies.
     To conclude, we see that trend-following reversal returns are closely related to the

                                             23




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
market factors, but has less exposure to the other factors. Some of the trend-following
reversal returns is not explained by the known factors and generates significant al-
phas. This is particularly true for the contrarian loser strategy, as it has the lowest
correlation with the market and also with trend-following factors. Owing to its rel-
atively low co-movement with the existing factors, it might be particularly useful
for investors who wish to avoid momentum risks25 and still obtain persistent high
returns.

6. Concluding Remarks

    This paper studies the time horizon and magnitude of time series reversal as
well as its relationship with time series continuation in an asset pool consisting of
various global commodity and financial futures across a time horizon of 30 years.
By performing multiple trend-following strategies, we observe a pervasive but not
statistically significant reversal between 12 and 24 months after the trend-following
signals are generated. The time series reversal period is much shorter than that of
conventional cross-sectional reversal recorded in the literature.
    We show that the time series reversal effect varies across different subgroups when
we decompose the trend-following portfolio into four sub-portfolios, namely realised
winners, realised losers, contrarian winners, and contrarian losers. Our results show
that time series momentum and reversal are not linked. Our results are consistent
with a small but growing body of literature suggesting that momentum and reversal
are separate phenomena, see, e.g., Cooper et al. (2004), Conrad and Yavuz (2017),
and Li and Galvani (2018). They contradict the conventional behavioral theories
such as Barberis et al. (1998), Daniel et al. (1998) and Hong and Stein (1999) which
focus on explaining the linkage between momentum and reversal.
    Our findings also suggest that the loser components of the trend-following strate-
gies (whether realised or not) generate significant post trend-following reversal. The
sub-portfolio with instruments which are past losers and later generate positive re-
turns, the contrarian loser subgroup, contributes the most to time series reversal.

 25
      See, e.g., Barroso and Santa-Clara (2015) and Daniel and Moskowitz (2016).

                                                24




                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
By contrast, the winner sub-portfolios do not show statistically significant reversal
patterns. Moreover, the contrarian loser strategy also displays a lower volatility and
lower maximum drawdown than the other three, indicating that it potentially forms
the basis of an efficient trading strategy.
    Based on these results, a new type of double-sorted trading strategy is introduced,
called a trend-following reversal strategy. It removes the part of the traditional trend-
following strategy that does not produce strong price return continuation/reversal in
the time series. The realised winners and contrarian losers are the two most signif-
icant sub-portfolios within trend-following reversal strategies. Moreover, compared
with the other three sub-portfolios, the contrarian losers show the lowest correlation
with momentum factors. Future research could focus on the potential of this ap-
proach to reduce the risk of momentum strategies by partially mitigating the impact
of momentum crashes.




                                             25




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
References

Daniel Andrei and Julien Cujean. Information percolation, momentum and reversal.
 Journal of Financial Economics, 123(3):617–645, 2017.

Clifford S Asness, Tobias J Moskowitz, and Lasse Heje Pedersen. Value and momen-
  tum everywhere. The Journal of Finance, 68(3):929–985, 2013.

Nick Baltas and Robert Kosowski. Momentum strategies in futures markets and
  trend-following funds. Working Paper, Imperial College Business School, 2013.

Nicholas Barberis, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert Vishny. A model of investor senti-
  ment. Journal of Financial Economics, 49(3):307–343, 1998.

Pedro Barroso and Pedro Santa-Clara. Momentum has its moments. Journal of
  Financial Economics, 116(1):111–120, 2015.

Sanjeev Bhojraj and Bhaskaran Swaminathan. Macromomentum: returns pre-
  dictability in international equity indices. The Journal of Business, 79(1):429–451,
  2006.

Robert J Bianchi, Michael E Drew, and John Hua Fan. Combining momentum with
  reversal in commodity futures. Journal of Banking & Finance, 59:423–444, 2015.

Jennifer Conrad and M Deniz Yavuz. Momentum and reversal: Does what goes up
  always come down? Review of Finance, 21(2):555–581, 2017.

Michael J Cooper, Roberto C Gutierrez Jr, and Allaudeen Hameed. Market states
 and momentum. The Journal of Finance, 59(3):1345–1365, 2004.

Kent Daniel and Tobias J Moskowitz. Momentum crashes. Journal of Financial
  Economics, 122(2):221–247, 2016.

Kent Daniel, David Hirshleifer, and Avanidhar Subrahmanyam. Investor psychology
  and security market under-and overreactions. The Journal of Finance, 53(6):1839–
  1885, 1998.

                                            26




              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
Werner FM De Bondt and Richard Thaler. Does the stock market overreact? The
 Journal of Finance, 40(3):793–805, 1985.

Victor DeMiguel, Francisco J Nogales, and Raman Uppal. Stock return serial de-
  pendence and out-of-sample portfolio performance. Review of Financial Studies,
  27(4):1031–1073, 2014.

Eugene F Fama. Market efficiency, long-term returns, and behavioral finance. Journal
  of Financial Economics, 49(3):283–306, 1998.

Eugene F Fama and Kenneth R French. Permanent and temporary components of
  stock prices. Journal of Political Economy, 96(2):246–273, 1988.

Eugene F Fama and Kenneth R French. Common risk factors in the returns on
  stocks and bonds. Journal of Financial Economics, 33(1):3–56, 1993.

Eugene F Fama and Kenneth R French. Value versus growth: The international
  evidence. The Journal of Finance, 53(6):1975–1999, 1998.

Eugene F Fama and Kenneth R French. A five-factor asset pricing model. Journal
  of Financial Economics, 116(1):1–22, 2015.

Ana-Maria Fuertes, Joëlle Miffre, and Georgios Rallis. Tactical allocation in commod-
 ity futures markets: Combining momentum and term structure signals. Journal
 of Banking & Finance, 34(10):2530–2548, 2010.

Thomas J George and Chuan-Yang Hwang. The 52-week high and momentum in-
 vesting. The Journal of Finance, 59(5):2145–2176, 2004.

Thomas J George and Chuan-yang Hwang. Long-term return reversals: overreaction
 or taxes? The Journal of Finance, 62(6):2865–2896, 2007.

Athina Georgopoulou and Jiaguo Wang. The trend is your friend: Time-series mo-
  mentum strategies across equity and commodity markets. Review of Finance, 21
  (4):1557–1592, 2016.


                                            27




              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
Gary B Gorton, Fumio Hayashi, and K Geert Rouwenhorst. The fundamentals of
 commodity futures returns. Review of Finance, 17(1):35–105, 2013.

Harrison Hong and Jeremy C Stein. A unified theory of underreaction, momentum
  trading, and overreaction in asset markets. The Journal of Finance, 54(6):2143–
  2184, 1999.

Mark C Hutchinson and John J O’Brien.           Time series momentum and
 macroeconomic risk. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2550718 or
 http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2550718, 2015.

Narasimhan Jegadeesh and Sheridan Titman. Returns to buying winners and selling
  losers: Implications for stock market efficiency. The Journal of Finance, 48(1):
  65–91, 1993.

Narasimhan Jegadeesh and Sheridan Titman. Profitability of momentum strategies:
  An evaluation of alternative explanations. The Journal of Finance, 56(2):699–720,
  2001.

Bryan T Kelly, Tobias J Moskowitz, and Seth Pruitt. Understanding momentum
  and reversal. Journal of Financial Economics, 140(3):726–743, 2021.

Abby Y Kim, Yiuman Tse, and John K Wald. Time series momentum and volatility
 scaling. Journal of Financial Markets, 2016.

Charles Lee and Bhaskaran Swaminathan. Price momentum and trading volume.
 The Journal of Finance, 55(5):2017–2069, 2000.

Jonathan Lewellen. Momentum and autocorrelation in stock returns. Review of
  Financial Studies, 15(2):533–564, 2002.

Lifang Li and Valentina Galvani. Market states, sentiment, and momentum in the
  corporate bond market. Journal of Banking & Finance, 89:249–265, 2018.




                                            28




              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
Andrew W Lo and A Craig MacKinlay. Stock market prices do not follow random
 walks: Evidence from a simple specification test. Review of Financial Studies, 1
 (1):41–66, 1988.

Andrew W Lo and A Craig MacKinlay. When are contrarian profits due to stock
 market overreaction? Review of Financial Studies, 3(2):175–205, 1990.

Lukas Menkhoff, Lucio Sarno, Maik Schmeling, and Andreas Schrimpf. Currency
  momentum strategies. Journal of Financial Economics, 106(3):660–684, 2012.

Joëlle Miffre and Georgios Rallis. Momentum strategies in commodity futures mar-
  kets. Journal of Banking & Finance, 31(6):1863–1886, 2007.

Tobias J Moskowitz, Yao Hua Ooi, and Lasse Heje Pedersen. Time series momentum.
  Journal of Financial Economics, 104(2):228–250, 2012.

Robert G Newcombe. Interval estimation for the difference between independent
  proportions: comparison of eleven methods. Statistics in Medicine, 17(8):873–890,
  1998a.

Robert G Newcombe. Two-sided confidence intervals for the single proportion: com-
  parison of seven methods. Statistics in Medicine, 17(8):857–872, 1998b.

Whitney K Newey and Kenneth D West. A simple, positive semi-definite, het-
 eroskedasticity and autocorrelationconsistent covariance matrix. Econometrica,
 55:703–708, 1986.

Marco Ottaviani and Peter Norman Sørensen. Price reaction to information with
 heterogeneous beliefs and wealth effects: Underreaction, momentum, and reversal.
 American Economic Review, 105(1):1–34, 2015.

Fotis Papailias, Jiadong Liu, and Dimitrios D Thomakos. Return signal momentum.
  Journal of Banking & Finance, 124:106063, 2021.

K Geert Rouwenhorst. International momentum strategies. The Journal of Finance,
  53(1):267–284, 1998.

                                            29




              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
Jacob S Sagi and Mark S Seasholes. Firm-specific attributes and the cross-section of
  momentum. Journal of Financial Economics, 84(2):389–434, 2007.

Samuel B Thompson. Simple formulas for standard errors that cluster by both firm
  and time. Journal of Financial Economics, 99(1):1–10, 2011.

Yaqiong Yao. Momentum, contrarian, and the january seasonality. Journal of Bank-
  ing & Finance, 36(10):2757–2769, 2012.

Guofu Zhou and Yingzi Zhu. An equilibrium model of moving-average predictability
 and time-series momentum. Unpublished Working Paper, Washington University
 in St. Louis, 2013.




                                            30




              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
                                         Table 1: Summary statistics.


This table reports the start date, mean, volatility/standard deviation, skewness and kurtosis for the 55 instruments
from their earliest availability. The arithmetic monthly mean returns and standard deviation are both annualised.
The detailed data sources are described in Section A of the Online Appendix. As seen in the table, the average
monthly returns and volatilities vary quite dramatically across different asset classes.

                   Asset         Start Date   Annual Mean      Annual Volatility   Skewness   Kurtosis

                   Commodity futures
                   Aluminum      1987-06-02      0.026              0.206           0.132       3.867
                   Brent         1988-06-24      0.100              0.322            0.454      6.156
                   Cocoa         1970-01-06      0.081              0.327            0.517      3.975
                   Coffee        1972-08-17      0.091              0.387            1.090      6.338
                   Copper        1986-04-02      0.082              0.254            0.110      6.607
                   Corn          1970-01-06      0.064              0.279            0.410      6.213
                   Cotton        1970-01-06      0.067              0.297           -0.402      7.419
                   Gas Oil       1989-07-04      0.104              0.331           0.327       4.867
                   Gold          1975-01-03      0.066              0.196            0.528      6.707
                   Heating Oil   1980-01-03      0.084              0.356           0.739       8.227
                   Lean Hogs     1986-04-02      0.073              0.343            0.191      4.519
                   Live Cattle   1970-01-06      0.057              0.197            0.037      4.078
                   Natural Gas   1990-04-04      0.165              0.544            0.494      4.044
                   Nickel        1987-01-06      0.135              0.418            2.531     20.747
                   Platinum      1984-01-27      0.039              0.229            0.024      7.909
                   RBOB          1986-08-22      0.130              0.401            0.707      6.006
                   Silver        1970-01-06      0.104              0.342           1.353      14.729
                   Soy Meal      1970-01-06      0.088              0.349            1.913     18.949
                   Soy Oil       1970-01-06      0.074              0.316            0.897      7.382
                   Soybeans      1970-01-06      0.071              0.291           0.776       9.254
                   Sugar         1970-01-06      0.123              0.459            1.659      9.671
                   Wheat         1970-01-06      0.069              0.291            0.592      5.091
                   WTI           1983-03-31      0.068              0.329            0.422      5.980
                   Zinc          1989-01-05      0.035              0.244           -0.053      4.887
                   Currency futures
                   AUD           1971-01-06      -0.002             0.110           -0.725       7.182
                   CAD           1971-01-06      -0.003             0.065           -0.289       8.058
                   EUR           1971-01-06      -0.002             0.111           -0.183       3.821
                   JPY           1971-01-06       0.022             0.114            0.480       5.175
                   NZD           1971-01-06      -0.002             0.120           -0.403       9.870
                   NOK           1971-01-06       0.009             0.104            0.081       4.571
                   SEK           1971-01-06       0.025             0.110            0.927       7.294
                   CHF           1971-01-06       0.016             0.124            0.076       4.301
                   GBP           1971-01-06      -0.005             0.101           -0.078       5.153
                   Equity index futures
                   SPI           1970-01-06      0.075              0.193           -0.670     10.241
                   CAC           1970-01-06      0.079              0.203           -0.114      3.911
                   DAX           1970-01-06      0.087              0.197           -0.506      5.119
                   FTSE/MIB      1970-01-06      0.074              0.238            0.409      4.169
                   TOPIX         1970-01-06      0.066              0.187           -0.172      4.279
                   AEX           1970-01-06      0.074              0.192           -0.556      5.474
                   IBEX          1970-01-06      0.070              0.209           -0.092      4.544
                   FTSE          1970-01-06      0.086              0.197            1.172     17.689
                   S&P 500       1970-01-06      0.080              0.154           -0.463      4.773
                   Bond futures
                   AUS3          1986-01-02      0.011              0.063           -3.391     37.454
                   AUS10         1986-01-02      0.009              0.048           -4.970     85.085
                   EURO2         1986-01-02      0.018              0.081            0.213      8.129
                   EURO5         1986-01-02      0.023              0.073           -0.002      9.478
                   EURO10        1986-01-02      0.037              0.078            0.235      5.771
                   EURO30        1986-01-02      0.037              0.124           -0.672     10.224
                   CA10          1986-01-02      0.023              0.074           -1.347     13.016
                   JP10          1985-10-22      0.016              0.054           -0.323      8.357
                   UK10          1982-11-19      0.010              0.091           -1.687     16.211
                   US2           1986-01-02      0.004              0.028           -0.053      8.363
                   US5           1986-01-02      0.008              0.047           -0.668      8.046
                   US10          1982-05-04      0.020              0.074           -0.305      6.311
                   US30          1977-08-23      0.019              0.118           -0.048      6.306




                                                          31




                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
                                                                                                           Table 2: Post TSM and RSM holding period performance (12, 12).


                                                                       Reported is the performance of 12 months holding period post trend-following strategies for the 4 sub-portfolios during 13-60 months after the formation
                                                                       of the signals, i.e. 13-24 months, 25-36 months, 37-48 months and 49-60 months. Decomposition method of the 4 sub-portfolios can be seen in Figure
                                                                       1. Each subgroup is constructed by evaluating whether the underlying trend-following profit is realised or not under a (j, h) scheme, where j = 12, is
                                                                       the trend-following look-back period and h = 12 is the trend-following holding period. The post trend-following holding period is equally divided into
                                                                       4 sub-periods which are shown in different panels. We compute the annualised mean, Newey-West t-statistics (*** p < 0.01; ** p < 0.05; * p < 0.1),
                                                                       annualised volatility/standard error, Sharpe Ratio and maximum drawdown for each strategy which are detailed in Section G of the Online Appendix.
                                                                       The performance is evaluated based on a dataset spanning January, 1985 to March 2015.


                                                                                                                                      TSM                                                 RSM

                                                                                                               Realised    Realised   Contrarian     Contrarian    Realised    Realised    Contrarian    Contrarian
                                                                                                               Winner       Loser      Winner          Loser       Winner       Loser       Winner         Loser

                                                                                 Panel A: 13-24 months
                                                                                 Annualised Mean                0.044        0.042       0.007          0.084        0.040      0.039        -0.002         0.087
                                                                                 Newey-West t-statistics        1.906*      1.680*       0.163        3.964***       1.612      1.338        0.019        3.702***
                                                                  32             Annualised Volatility           0.028      0.031        0.042          0.027        0.030      0.030         0.034         0.030
                                                                                 Sharpe Ratio                   1.535       1.352        0.177          3.139        1.324      1.285        -0.049         2.880
                                                                                 Maximum Drawdown               0.160        0.150       0.420          0.129        0.188      0.163        0.413          0.118
                                                                                 Panel B: 25-36 months
                                                                                 Annualised Mean                 0.009      0.076        0.056          0.057        0.014       0.063       0.052          0.051
                                                                                 Newey-West t-statistics         0.259     2.511**      2.469**         0.854        0.334     3.463***     2.023**         0.655
                                                                                 Annualised Volatility           0.030      0.034        0.030          0.041        0.033       0.026       0.032          0.038
                                                                                 Sharpe Ratio                    0.310      2.235        1.871          1.387        0.430       2.389       1.640          1.328
                                                                                 Maximum Drawdown                0.265      0.111        0.152          0.301        0.332       0.080       0.163          0.286
                                                                                 Panel C: 37-48 months
                                                                                 Annualised Mean                 0.019      0.057        0.055          0.043        0.029      0.037         0.056         0.030
                                                                                 Newey-West t-statistics         0.585      1.374        0.899          1.254        0.833      0.979         0.911         0.858
                                                                                 Annualised Volatility           0.030      0.034        0.037          0.033        0.031      0.029         0.041         0.032
                                                                                 Sharpe Ratio                    0.637      1.686        1.482          1.310        0.947      1.297         1.390         0.939
                                                                                 Maximum Drawdown                0.255      0.165        0.134          0.203        0.243      0.172         0.178         0.197
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875




                                                                                 Panel D: 49-60 months
                                                                                 Annualised Mean                 0.036      0.059        0.040          0.041        0.042      0.057        0.043          0.035
                                                                                 Newey-West t-statistics         0.601      1.375        1.298          1.516        0.673      1.802*       1.840*        1.915*
                                                                                 Annualised Volatility           0.038      0.033        0.031          0.027        0.038       0.029       0.029         0.026
                                                                                 Sharpe Ratio                    0.944      1.763        1.296          1.499        1.110       1.937       1.474         1.336
                                                                                 Maximum Drawdown                0.236      0.112        0.249          0.148        0.215      0.086        0.122          0.154
                                                                                                               Table 3: Performance of trend-following reversal strategies.


                                                                       Reported is the performance of 4 sub-portfolios sorted by both time series continuation and reversal using volatility scaling to determine the weight.
                                                                       Decomposition method of the 4 sub-portfolios can be seen in Figure 1. The strategy signals are renewed every month and the holding period is 1 month.
                                                                       Each subgroup is constructed by evaluating whether the underlying trend-following profit is realised or not under a (j, h) scheme, where j = 12, is the
                                                                       trend-following look-back period and h = 1, 3, 6, 12 denotes the trend-following holding periods shown in different panels. We compute the annualised
                                                                       mean, Newey-West t-statistics (*** p < 0.01; ** p < 0.05; * p < 0.1), annualised volatility/standard error, Sharpe Ratio and maximum drawdown for
                                                                       each strategy. The performance is evaluated based on a dataset spanning from January, 1985 to March 2015. The realised winner and contrarian loser
                                                                       exhibit strong performance with the t-statistics being significant at the 1% level across different (j, h) schemes.


                                                                                                                                    TSM                                                 RSM

                                                                                                             Realised    Realised    Contrarian    Contrarian    Realised    Realised    Contrarian    Contrarian
                                                                                                             Winner       Loser       Winner         Loser       Winner       Loser       Winner         Loser

                                                                                  Panel A: (12,1)
                                                                                  Annualised Mean              0.218       0.044        0.151         0.098        0.220       0.041        0.141         0.105
                                                                                  Newey-West t-statistics    5.842***      0.899      4.061***      2.944***     5.510***      0.883      3.709***      2.584***
                                                                  33              Annualised Volatility        0.200       0.224        0.200         0.211        0.204       0.233        0.209         0.235
                                                                                  Sharpe Ratio                 1.087       0.195        0.754         0.465        1.080       0.176        0.678         0.444
                                                                                  Maximum Drawdown             0.294       0.770        0.515         0.458        0.297       0.755        0.528         0.673
                                                                                  Panel B: (12,3)
                                                                                  Annualised Mean              0.265      0.074         0.036         0.165        0.262      0.085         0.054         0.155
                                                                                  Newey-West t-statistics    7.454***     1.780*        1.008       4.019***     7.216***    2.000**        1.344       3.571***
                                                                                  Annualised Volatility        0.209       0.219        0.190         0.221        0.213      0.227         0.199         0.224
                                                                                  Sharpe Ratio                 1.269      0.338         0.187         0.749        1.231      0.376         0.272         0.693
                                                                                  Maximum Drawdown             0.213      0.517         0.614         0.472        0.267      0.530         0.492         0.548
                                                                                  Panel C: (12,6)
                                                                                  Annualised Mean              0.177       0.060        0.092         0.150        0.204       0.028        0.104         0.088
                                                                                  Newey-West t-statistics    4.027***      1.532      2.705***      4.283***     4.781***      0.678      2.632***       2.103**
                                                                                  Annualised Volatility        0.217       0.221        0.195         0.207        0.225       0.223        0.217         0.216
                                                                                  Sharpe Ratio                 0.815       0.273        0.473         0.726        0.907       0.124        0.477         0.406
                                                                                  Maximum Drawdown             0.363       0.558        0.432         0.378        0.448       0.661        0.409         0.527
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875




                                                                                  Panel D: (12,12)
                                                                                  Annualised Mean              0.193       0.031        0.007         0.207        0.189       0.049       -0.002         0.183
                                                                                  Newey-West t-statistics    4.969***      0.738        0.151       5.313***     5.063***      1.157       -0.053       4.462***
                                                                                  Annualised Volatility        0.212       0.230        0.221         0.216        0.211       0.225       0.228          0.229
                                                                                  Sharpe Ratio                 0.911       0.137        0.034         0.958        0.899       0.220       -0.010         0.799
                                                                                  Maximum Drawdown             0.365       0.705        0.776         0.332        0.349       0.596        0.791         0.486
                                                                                                       Table 4: Factor exposure of trend-following reversal strategies (12, 12) I.


                                                                       This table reports the factor exposure of different sub-portfolios decomposed from TSM and RSM strategies, namely realised winner, realised loser,
                                                                       contrarian winner and contrarian loser. Decomposition method of the 4 sub-portfolios can be seen in Figure 1. The regression coefficients are reported
                                                                       in the first row and t-statistics (*** p < 0.01; ** p < 0.05; * p < 0.1) in the row below. Panel A and B summarise the results of Fama-French three and
                                                                       five factor models, respectively. Small Minus Big (SMB), High Minus Low (HML), Robust Minus Weak (RMW) and Conservative Minus Aggressive
                                                                       (CMA) represent size, value, profitability and investment factors, respectively. The regressions are conducted with the monthly returns that span the
                                                                       period from January, 1985 to March 2015. The alphas of realised winner and contrarian loser are statistically significant at the 1% level in both factor
                                                                       models.

                                                                                                                             TSM                                                  RSM

                                                                                                     Realised     Realised    Contrarian    Contrarian     Realised    Realised    Contrarian     Contrarian
                                                                                                     Winner        Loser       Winner         Loser        Winner       Loser       Winner          Loser

                                                                                        Panel A: Fama and French three factors
                                                                                        Intercept    0.014   -0.001     -0.002                 0.016         0.013       0.001       -0.003          0.014
                                                                                                  4.514***   -0.303     -0.736               4.676***     4.400***       0.227       -0.868        3.859***
                                                                                        MSCI         0.485    0.482      0.429                 0.260         0.536       0.414        0.422          0.232
                                                                  34                              7.008***  6.219***  5.718***               3.447***     7.912***     5.423***     5.425***       2.891***
                                                                                        SMB         -0.238    0.082     -0.004                 0.002        -0.247       0.161       -0.122          0.013
                                                                                                   -2.375**   0.731     -0.037                 0.018       -2.527**      1.454       -1.081          0.116
                                                                                        HML         -0.298    0.230      0.146                -0.012        -0.286       0.256        0.093          0.012
                                                                                                  -2.781***  1.916*      1.257                -0.100      -2.728***     2.161**       0.769          0.098
                                                                                        R2           0.156    0.105      0.087                 0.035         0.184       0.089        0.080          0.024

                                                                                        Panel B: Fama and French five factors
                                                                                        Intercept    0.014   -0.001      -0.001                 0.012         0.013      0.001        -0.001         0.011
                                                                                                  4.338***   -0.417      -0.170              3.496***      4.164***       0.191       -0.154       2.934***
                                                                                        MSCI         0.489   0.493        0.368                 0.380         0.546       0.418        0.340         0.329
                                                                                                  6.598*** 5.962***    4.585***              4.796***      7.525***    5.159***     4.100***       3.860***
                                                                                        SMB         -0.207    0.014      -0.106                 0.134        -0.203      0.030        -0.195         0.095
                                                                                                   -1.854*    0.109      -0.874                 1.117       -1.855*       0.248       -1.558         0.739
                                                                                        HML         -0.279    0.101       0.320                -0.496        -0.275      0.105         0.381        -0.400
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875




                                                                                                   -1.909*    0.620     2.022**              -3.182***      -1.924*      0.660       2.339**       -2.386**
                                                                                        RMW          0.091   -0.163      -0.232                 0.439         0.131      -0.292       -0.211         0.310
                                                                                                     0.635   -1.019      -1.490              2.864***         0.931     -1.864*       -1.314        1.881*
                                                                                        CMA         -0.114   0.418       -0.292                 0.731        -0.108      0.518        -0.549         0.658
                                                                                                    -0.559  1.837*       -1.320               3.350***       -0.541    2.321**      -2.408**       2.807***
                                                                                        R2           0.163    0.120       0.096                 0.083         0.192      0.116         0.097         0.053
                                                                                                      Table 5: Factor exposure of trend-following reversal strategies (12, 12) II.


                                                                       This table reports the factor exposure of the four sub-portfolios decomposed from TSM and RSM strategies, namely realised winner, realised loser,
                                                                       contrarian winner and contrarian loser. Decomposition method of the 4 sub-portfolios can be seen in Figure 1. The regression coefficients are reported
                                                                       in the first row and t-statistics (*** p < 0.01; ** p < 0.05; * p < 0.1) in the row below. Panel A and B summarise the results of global asset class
                                                                       factor model and value and Momentum Everywhere factor model, respectively. The regressions are conducted with the monthly returns that span the
                                                                       period from January, 1985 to March 2015. The alphas of the realised winner and contrarian loser are strongly significant in the Value and Momentum
                                                                       Everywhere model, whereas they are mostly insignificant in the global asset class model.


                                                                                                                            TSM                                                   RSM

                                                                                                    Realised     Realised    Contrarian    Contrarian     Realised    Realised     Contrarian    Contrarian
                                                                                                    Winner        Loser       Winner         Loser        Winner       Loser        Winner         Loser

                                                                                       Panel A: Global asset class factors
                                                                                       Intercept   0.002      -0.005       -0.007             0.006         0.001      -0.003        -0.010         0.004
                                                                                                   0.562      -1.452     -2.087**            1.729*         0.429      -0.676       -2.605**        1.147
                                                                                       MSCI        0.359      0.385         0.293             0.141         0.412       0.354         0.283         0.139
                                                                  35                             5.405***   4.807***     3.825***            1.892*       6.332***    4.412***      3.575***       1.715*
                                                                                       GSCI        0.208       0.234        0.224             0.142         0.188       0.182         0.227         0.093
                                                                                                 4.122***   3.842***     3.859***           2.503**       3.803***    2.990***      3.780***        1.509
                                                                                       BOND        1.962      0.817        0.922              1.711         1.942       0.645         1.170         1.694
                                                                                                 7.971***   2.753***     3.255***           6.180***      8.055***    2.173**       4.000***      5.656***
                                                                                       USDI       -0.131       0.065       -0.146            -0.172        -0.141       0.126        -0.100        -0.111
                                                                                                  -1.083       0.446       -1.051            -1.266        -1.190       0.865        -0.700        -0.754
                                                                                       R2          0.306       0.147        0.155             0.159         0.328       0.106         0.153         0.120

                                                                                       Panel B: Value and Momentum Everywhere factors
                                                                                       Intercept    0.012     0.001    0.004     0.010                      0.011        0.002         0.003        0.008
                                                                                                  3.950***    0.276     1.123  3.092***                   3.810***       0.705         0.796       2.270**
                                                                                       MSCI         0.478     0.480     0.393    0.279                      0.527        0.415         0.382        0.253
                                                                                                  7.505***  6.638*** 5.639***  3.966***                   8.526***     5.693***      5.235***     3.361***
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875




                                                                                       VAL         -0.882     0.792    -0.763    0.703                     -0.876        0.707        -0.735        0.886
                                                                                                 -3.484***  2.758*** -2.757*** 2.515***                  -3.566***     2.443***     -2.535***     2.958***
                                                                                       MOM          0.948    -0.957    -1.633    1.573                      1.000       -0.745        -1.574        1.584
                                                                                                 4.273***  -3.805*** -6.733*** 6.423***                  4.650***     -2.937***     -6.201***     6.039***
                                                                                       R2           0.263     0.199     0.190    0.139                      0.301        0.148         0.167        0.117
                                                                  36




                                                                                                             Figure 1: Decomposition of trend-following strategies.

                                                                       This figure illustrates how the four sub-portfolios of trend-following strategies: realised winner, realised loser, contrarian winner
                                                                       and contrarian loser are constructed. Ranking period 1 refers to the conventional trend-following look-back period j. Ranking
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875




                                                                       period 2 is the trend-following holding period, which examines whether these winner/loser signals generated from ranking period
                                                                       1 are realised or not.
                   Panel A                       Single Month Return                                                                        Single Month Return Sign

                                                                                                                   3

                   4
                                                                                                                   2

                   2                                                                                               1




     t−Statistic                                                                                     t−Statistic
                   0                                                                                               0


                   −2                                                                                              −1


                                                                                                                   −2
                   −4

                                                                                                                   −3
                   −6


                        1   4   7 10   14   18   22    26   30   34   38   42   46   50   54   58                       1   4   7 10   14   18   22   26   30   34   38   42   46   50   54   58

                                                        Month lag                                                                                      Month lag



                   Panel B                            Period Return                                                                              Period Mean sign


                   2                                                                                               1

                   1
                                                                                                                   0
                   0



     t−Statistic                                                                                     t−Statistic
                                                                                                                   −1
                   −1


                   −2
                                                                                                                   −2

                   −3
                                                                                                                   −3
                   −4



                        1   4   7 10   14   18   22    26   30   34   38   42   46   50   54   58                       1   4   7 10   14   18   22   26   30   34   38   42   46   50   54   58

                                                        Month lag                                                                                      Month lag



                    Panel C                            TSM Signal                                                                                     RSM Signal

                                                                                                                   2
                   1

                                                                                                                   1
                   0


                                                                                                                   0

     t−Statistic                                                                                     t−Statistic
                   −1


                   −2                                                                                              −1


                   −3
                                                                                                                   −2

                   −4
                                                                                                                   −3

                        1   4   7 10   14   18   22    26   30   34   38   42   46   50   54   58                       1   4   7 10   14   18   22   26   30   34   38   42   46   50   54   58

                                                        Month lag                                                                                      Month lag




                            Figure 2: Time series predictability of 12 months TSM and RSM signals.

Reporting the t-statistics of βh for lags from h = 1 to h = 60 based on three sets of panel regressions across all
assets. In Panel A, we regress the volatility-scaled return rts /σt−1
                                                                  s                                   s
                                                                      on lagged signal month return rt−h     s
                                                                                                          /σt−h−1   and
                              s
lagged sign of return, sign(rt−h ), as seen in Equation 7 and 8, respectively. Panel B reports the regression results by
using i) 12 months period return P Rt−h−11,t−h and ii) 12 months mean return sign Pt−h−11,t−h as the explanatory
                                                              T SM
variables. In Panel C, the TSM and RSM signals, namely St−h−11,t−h              RSM
                                                                           and St−h−11,t−h , are used as the regressors.
The t-statistics are calculated based on the robust standard errors of Thompson (2011).



                                                                                                    37




                                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
                                                                  TSM

                         0.12


                         0.10


                         0.08



          Mean Returns
                         0.06


                         0.04


                         0.02


                         0.00

                                     1    2    3    6    9      12    18       24   30   36   48   60

                                                             Holding Periods



                                                                 RSM

                         0.12


                         0.10


                         0.08



          Mean Returns
                         0.06


                         0.04


                         0.02


                         0.00

                                     1    2    3    6    9      12    18       24   30   36   48   60

                                                             Holding Periods


                                     Figure 3: Return decays of trend-following strategies.

Reported are the annualised mean returns of TSM and RSM strategies with different holding periods
h(1,2,3,6,9,12,18,24,30,36,48,60 months). The strategies are performed using an asset pool with 55
futures from January, 1985 to March, 2015. The trend-following profit declines as the holding period
increases. The decays stop at about holding period of 24 months and keep constant afterwards.




                                                                38




                                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
                                                                         TSM



                      0.04




       Mean Returns
                      0.00




                      −0.04




                      −0.08
                                         2   4   6    8   10   13   16    19    22    25   28    31   34

                                                                    Lagged Months



                                                                         RSM




                      0.00 0.02 0.04




       Mean Returns
                      −0.04




                      −0.08
                                         2   4   6    8   10   13   16    19    22    25   28    31   34

                                                                    Lagged Months


                                                     Figure 4: Timing of time series reversal.

Reported are the annualised mean returns of the contrarian TSM and RSM strategies, which is
short the assets that have a buy signal and long the assets that have a sell signal. Each contrarian
portfolio is hold for one month with different time lags from h = 2 to h = 36. The strategies are
performed using an asset pool with 55 futures from January, 1985 to March, 2015. The contrarian
profit mainly appears during 12-24 months after the trend-folling signal is formed.



                                                                         39




                                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
                                                                                                                                                             (12,1)            Realised Winner     Realised Loser                                     Contrarian Winner     Contrarian Loser            (12,3)


                                                                                                                  0.70                                                                                                                              0.70


                                                                                                                  0.65                                                                                                                              0.65


                                                                                                                  0.60                                                                                                                              0.60


                                                                                                                  0.55                                                                                                                              0.55
                                                                                  Probability of Positive signs                                                                                                     Probability of Positive signs



                                                                                                                  0.50                                                                                                                              0.50


                                                                                                                         TSM.RW   TSM.RL   TSM.CW   TSM.CL            RSM.RW    RSM.RL    RSM.CW   RSM.CL                                                        TSM.RW   TSM.RL     TSM.CW    TSM.CL             RSM.RW   RSM.RL   RSM.CW   RSM.CL



                                                                                                                                                             (12,6)                                                                                                                                     (12,12)


                                                                                                                  0.70                                                                                                                              0.70

                                                                  40                                              0.65                                                                                                                              0.65


                                                                                                                  0.60                                                                                                                              0.60


                                                                                                                  0.55                                                                                                                              0.55
                                                                                  Probability of Positive signs                                                                                                     Probability of Positive signs



                                                                                                                  0.50                                                                                                                              0.50


                                                                                                                         TSM.RW   TSM.RL   TSM.CW   TSM.CL            RSM.RW    RSM.RL    RSM.CW   RSM.CL                                                        TSM.RW   TSM.RL     TSM.CW    TSM.CL             RSM.RW   RSM.RL   RSM.CW   RSM.CL




                                                                                                                         Figure 5: Sign analysis of post TSM and RSM holding period performance (month 13-24).
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875




                                                                       Reported figure shows the probability of positive signs of the realised winner (RW), realised loser (RL), contrarian winner (CW), and contrarian loser
                                                                       (CL) sub-portfolios during the post holding period (month 13-24). Decomposition method of the 4 sub-portfolios can be seen in Figure 1. The baseline,
                                                                       TSM and RSM strategies, are performed using an asset pool with 55 futures from January, 1985 to March, 2015. Different panels represent different
                                                                       (j, h) schemes in constructing trend-following strategies, where j is the 12-month look-back period and h is the holding period ranging from month
                                                                       1–12. The horizontal line denotes the unconditional average of the entire sample.
                                                  TSM
                                                  TSM Realised Winner
                                     100




           Growth of $1 log scaled
                                                  TSM Contrarian Loser




                                     10




                                     1

                                           1985   1990       1995         2000       2005   2010   2015

                                                                              Date
                                                  RSM
                                                  RSM Realised Winner
                                     100




           Growth of $1 log scaled
                                                  RSM Contrarian Loser




                                     10




                                     1

                                           1985   1990       1995         2000       2005   2010   2015

                                                                              Date

       Figure 6: Cumulative returns of different (12, 12) trend-following reversal strategies.

Plotted are the cumulative returns of trend-following reversal realised winner and contrarian loser
strategies compared to their corresponding trend-following strategies (TSM and RSM) using (12, 12)
scheme. The cumulative returns are calculated as shown in Section G of the Online Appendix. The
strategies are performed using an asset pool with 55 futures from January, 1985 to March, 2015.
Logarithmic scaling is applied to the y-axes, i.e. growth of $1. As shown in both panels, the realised
winner and contrarian loser substantially outperform their baseline strategies.




                                                                         41




                                      Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875
                                                                                                             Realised Winner   Realised Loser   Contrarian Winner   Contrarian Loser
                                                                              1.0




                                                                              0.8




                                                                              0.6




                                                                              0.4



                                                                  42
                                                                              0.2




                                                                              0.0
                                                                                         Aluminum
                                                                                              Brent
                                                                                            Cocoa
                                                                                            Coffee
                                                                                           Copper
                                                                                              Corn
                                                                                            Cotton
                                                                                           Gas.Oil
                                                                                               Gold
                                                                                        Heating.Oil
                                                                                        Lean.Hogs
                                                                                        Live.Cattle
                                                                                       Natural.Gas
                                                                                             Nickel
                                                                                          Platinum
                                                                                             RBOB
                                                                                             Silver
                                                                                         Soy.Meal
                                                                                            Soy.Oil
                                                                                         Soybeans
                                                                                             Sugar
                                                                                            Wheat
                                                                                               WTI
                                                                                               Zinc
                                                                                               AUD
                                                                                               CAD
                                                                                               EUR
                                                                                               JPY
                                                                                               NZD
                                                                                              NOK
                                                                                               SEK
                                                                                               CHF
                                                                                               GBP
                                                                                                SPI
                                                                                               CAC
                                                                                               DAX
                                                                                        FTSE.MIB
                                                                                            TOPIX
                                                                                               AEX
                                                                                              IBEX
                                                                                             FTSE
                                                                                                S.P
                                                                                             AUS3
                                                                                            AUS10
                                                                                           EURO2
                                                                                           EURO5
                                                                                          EURO10
                                                                                          EURO30
                                                                                             CA10
                                                                                              JP10
                                                                                             UK10
                                                                                               US2
                                                                                               US5
                                                                                             US10
                                                                                             US30


                                                                                     Figure 7: Proportions of TSM trend-following reversal signals for individual instruments (12, 12).
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971875




                                                                       This bar chart reports the aggregated frequency for each of the individual instruments to be assigned to the 4 sub-portfolios
                                                                       under a TSM strategy using (12, 12) scheme. Decomposition method of the 4 sub-portfolios can be seen in Figure 1. The
                                                                       frequency is aggregated across the entire sample period ranging from January, 1985 to March, 2015, based on the portfolio
                                                                       comprised of a total of 55 futures.
